# Documentation

## Links to Items within this Document
* [Webpack Notes](#webpack-notes)
* [Notifications Doc](#notifications-documentation)
* [Suggestion Controller Doc](#suggestion-controller-documentation)
* [User Code Execution Doc](#user-code-execution-documentation)
* [Variable Controller Doc](#variable-controller-documentation)
* [Toolbox.ts Doc](#toolbox-documentation)
* [Typechecker Doc](#typechecker-documentation)
* [Construct Events Doc](#construct-events-documentation)
* [Miscellanious Doc](#misc-documentation)

## Dev Notes

### Webpack Notes
These are mainly notes on the fields within `webpack.config.js`. <br/>

* __`entry`__: these are the various entries into the dependency graph that webpack uses to connect to other dependencies. Any new entry point needs to be added here.
This is mostly for adding individual JS scripts since the rest of our code is added by the entry for `index.ts`. If you want to add a new script, you can just add the path
to it inside the array under `app`. **Make sure to not add any scripts under a NEW entry. This will cause webpack to bundle multiple times which will end up running the code multiple times.**

* __`output`__: this describes the path to the bundles generated by each entry point. If you want the bundles to be served from some other file or to rename them, this is the place to do it.

* __`module: rules:`__: this lists how various file types are transpiled to code that can be ran by the browser. That's what the loaders are for. After adding a loader here, you need to 
specify what types of files it processes and then just install it through npm. 

### Notifications Documentation
#### Notification.ts and NotificationController.ts
These two are pretty well documented inside the code. Notification.ts provides class definitions for all warnings that we have in the editor. This includes the draft mode. It also contains
the definition for `ConstructHighlight` an object that can be used to highlight a piece of code within the editor. 

#### ErrorMsgGenerator.ts 
This contains the old strings used for warning messages. Most of these are not used anymore, but they were left in the code in case some of the text can be used in the future.


### Suggestion Controller Documentation
Overall the way this works is you create a `Menu` object which holds `MenuOption` objects which perform some action when selected. `Menu` objects can be nested in a tree to provided nested menu functionality. `MenuController` is a singleton controlling all existing menus. It keeps track of open/closed menus as well as the currently focused option within each open menu. 

If you want to create a menu you should use `MenuController`, you should not have to interact with `Menu` and `MenuOption` directly. So before modifying those, check if `MenuController` already provides the functionality you want and if it does not, it is likely that it should be added there rather than the menus and the options.

`Module` has a `MenuController` and that is how our code instantiates these menus. It calls `buldSingleLevelMenu()` each time a menu needs to be opened. If you want to see exactly how a menu is created by the calling code in various contexts, just search for usages of `buildSingleLevelMenu()`.
#### Menu
This is the main class that provides the functionality for our autocomplete and other menus. It can be used to create both a single-level and a tree menu. This only depends on how the menu
is built and the options are connected. This class also grants access to the DOM object of the menu as well as methods for manipulating it.

##### Attributes
* __`options: MenuOption[]`__: <br/>
array of MenuOption objects that are displayed by the menu.
* __`editCodeActionsOptions: EditCodeAction[]`__: <br/>
array of actions from which this menus options are created. These actions' `performAction` methods are executed when their 
corresponding option is selected in the menu. 
* __`openedLinkOptionIndex: number`__: <br/>
Index into this.options of an option that is currently focused and links to another menu.
* __`children: Menu[]`__: <br/>
Stores all child menus of this menu. This allows the menus to be organized in a tree. This array should only be used to contain the next level of the tree, not all
descendants of this menu.
* __`parentMenu: Menu`__: <br/>
The parent menu of this menu. The tree above it in the tree of menus. `null` if the current menu is a tree root.
* __`htmlElement: HTMLDivElement`__: <br/>
The menu DOM element to which option DOM elements are attached.
* __`static menuCount: number`__: <br/>
* __`static idPrefix: string`__: <br/>
Used for numbering menus with unique IDs in the DOM in case the menus form a tree.


##### Behaviours
__1.__ `constructor(options: Map<string, Function>)`
###### Summary:
###### Parameters:
* __`options`__: this map is expected to contain a mapping from option name to the action that is to be executed when the option is selected.

__2.__ `closeChildren(): void`
###### Summary:
Close all open descendants of this menu if it has any.

__3.__ `indentChildren(offset: number = 0): void`
###### Summary:
Indent all children of this menu according to their depth. This method visualizes the tree structure of the nested menus in the browser.
###### Parameters:
* __`offset`__: indentation value in px. All indents are made from left to right. If `offset > 0` this will be the initial offset used and the menus on the second level will appear that many px away from their parent. All subsequent menus will add to this offset. Keep this set to 0 if you want menus on each level to use their width as the indentation
amount.

__4.__ `linkMenuThroughOption(child: Menu, optionInParent: string): void`
###### Summary:
Link `this` and `child` together in a parent-child relationship such that when `optionInParent` is focused, it opens `child`. `optionInParent` is a string and so its
value is searched for inside the `options` array of this menu. This is for ease of use so that you don't need access to the menu option object itself when linking menus.
###### Parameters:
* __`child`__: the menu to be opened when `optionInParent` is focused in this menu
* __`optionInParent`__: the text of the option to be used to link the two menus

__5.__ `removeChild(child: Menu): void`
###### Summary:
Remove a given child from the menu.
###### Parameters:
* __`child`__: child to be removed

__6.__ `static collapseSingleLinkMenus(root: Menu): void`
###### Summary:
Remove menu's that only serve as links (have a single option that links to another menu). In the example below option3 is not really necessary. These are the kinds of options this method will remove.
```
option1 --> option3 --> option4
option2
```
Will become
```
option1 --> option4
option2
```
###### Parameters:
* __`root`__: the root of the menu structure


__7.__ `removeEmptyChildren(): void`
###### Summary:
Remove all menus that are either completely empty or have options that don't perform any valid action. This is for cases such as the one below
```
option1 --> option3 --> Empty Menu
option2     option4
```
Will become
```
option1 --> option4
option2
```

__8.__ `open(): void`
###### Summary:
Display this menu in the editor.

__9.__ `close(): void`
###### Summary:
Hide this menu in the editor.

__10.__ `isOpen(): boolean`
###### Summary:
Return whether this menu is currently visible in the editor or not. 

__11.__ `setChildMenus(menus: Menu[]): void`
###### Summary:
Replace this menus `children` list with `menus`.
###### Parameters:
* __`menus`__: new menus that will be the children of this menu.
   
__12.__ `addChildMenu(menu: Menu): void`
###### Summary:
Add a single child to this menu's children and update the parent of `menu` to be this.
###### Parameters:
* __`menu`__: menu that will become the child of `this`

__13.__ `removeFromDOM(): void`
###### Summary:
Remove this menu from the DOM.

__14.__ `getOptionByText(optionText: string): MenuOption`
###### Summary:
Return the menu option with matching `optionText` within this menu's options. `undefined` if no options is found to have the given text.
###### Parameters:
* __`optionText`__: option text to match options on

#### MenuOption
Provides the definition of our menu options. This are placed within menu objects and are displayed as part of the menu in the editor. These offer functionality for linking options 
to other menus allowing the user code to nest menus. 


#### MenuController
This class provides the main control logic for creating and controlling a menu and its options. 


